Here in the second of our actors we're going to be seeing how you can use version control with your
Android apps and specifically going to be using it which is a very widely used version control system.
I'd thoroughly recommend using version control if you're working with particularly a large project.
It enables you to go back to previous versions of your app.
And it also makes it much easier for lots of people to work on the same app and then merge their results.
And the work that they've done into a final product.
So if you want to read more about it then go to get dash SBM dot com and check out the about pages and
the documentation if you like.
But really I'll show you all the basics of what you'll need in this video.
You might also need to download kits if you haven't already worked with any kind of version control.
Then it will detect the system that your own so just clicked download for Mac or download from windows
and just download the latest version and follow the instructions to install it.
That's pretty straightforward.
All right so working with get an android studio will create a new project
to do that.
I remember the name of this project is not to actually get an app that does anything but to see how
we can use version control to make our development process smoother and to allow us to revert to previous
versions.
If you've done something horrendously bad which happens to the best of us occasionally.
Ok so I'll make all my changes in main java file but you can use version control on all of the files
within your app.
So to start off we get a yes or version control system and enable version control integration.
Simple as that.
And then select the version control system you want to use and we're going to use get.
And there we go.
So already we now have a good repository in our folder and this will then save all of the versions of
our app that we work with.
So how do we set this up.
Well first of all you'll notice that everything is read at the moment and this is because we haven't
added anything to our version control repository so if we just click on version control that we've got
nothing.
In default there would be thirty five unverse files.
So the first thing we're going to do is select our whole app and add it to our version control system
to get VTES and then get.
And then at now you can see everything goes green and it's all been added to our version control system.
In fact there are some files which haven't.
And these are ones which were going to opt not to have invention control because that can cause problems.
We're going to be working with a default there which are all the sort of files that we work with anyway.
OK
so a key aspect of working with version control is committing.
So once you've added all your files with them want to commit and it says commit changes we haven't actually
made any changes yet.
But this is our initial commit to get everything started.
So this is all of the different code and whenever we commit in it we give a commit message which is
an instruction that just sort of lists the details of the particular commits.
So this is our initial commit which just means that way of stating our first version essentially of
our app which in our case obviously is just the default app.
Then we can have a little look at that if we go over to log so we can see what we've done so far.
So you can see we've got a head which is why we're working out at the moment.
We've got the master which is the main branch that we're working on will talk about branches in a minute
and then we've got our initial commit
all right so how does this then work.
So let's say we write a little bit of code and create a string
user he calls.
So very simple.
Probably not something that you would want to commit after you've probably confident enough that you
could undo that line of code if necessary.
First off notice now as we're writing code this green bar is coming down to shows this is new code that
has not been committed yet.
And if we write some code in here as well we'll get a similar
rewrite some code in there that will appear there too.
So this shows us the new code that we haven't committed yet.
So let's pretend we've written some fantastic code we're pretty happy with it we've tested it and we
want to commit it.
So once again we just go to VTES and commit changes or indeed command K probably control K on Windows
and then we commit that and
I'll call it added use.
Rob and then we'll commit that change.
And if we have a look at the Loek Now you can see we've got our initial commit and then we've got a
later added user.
Rob commit and hopefully you can start to see that then looking at this get log.
You'll then get a nice picture of how your app is developed and maybe if you think back to say our Instagram
app we might have had that the first commit connected successfully to pass the second one added the
log in screen.
The third one added They use a table et cetera et cetera and then you can see each stage of the app
and very usefully go back to them if you want to.
So let's say for example that
I now write some more code
so I'll create another user is Caston blah blah blah and I might even delete my initial code and then
further down the line I decide I actually want to get that initial code back.
How do I do that.
Well if you weren't using gets you may have saved its saved another version or you may be able to use
commands as if the memory is long enough and you haven't gone forward too far.
But if you're using gets then you can revert to a previous version which is extremely useful so to do
that you just go to local changes here and a version control click on the file that you want and then
control click or right click and then with it.
And that will then take you back to our previous comments and you can breathe a sigh of relief and you've
got your code back as it was.
So that's one great use of version control to be able to go back to a previous version and undo the
changes that you've made.
The other the version control that I want to show you is how to use branches now branches are controlled
down here.
So at the moment we're on the master approach which is the kind of default branch which you should always
stick with in the long run.
But we might want to create a new branch so let's say we want to test some kind of integration.
So this might be testing Facebook
integration.
So then I might go off on some wild tangent and see if I can make Facebook integrate with the main app
and that might not involve just adding code.
It might involve getting rid of some code changing code changing things all over the place but I want
to still be able to revert back if I want to.
So this is a grander thing than just doing a never commit.
And if we if we now look there you can see we're on this testing Facebook branch.
So if I now do a couple of commits I'm just going to the comments this time.
So we'll do a quick
give it a message pay is great comments and then commit
I think I manage to type there too.
And maybe later on I decide
it's not so good.
So let's commit that.
There we go.
Now if I now have a look at the log you can see hopefully what's going on there said that the monster
branch ended there and then we switched over to the testing Facebook integration branch.
So as always I could revert back to the added use of Rob but the really useful thing is if I eventually
decide say that I've completed my testing Facebook integration say I'm done.
And then commit that
then once the testing phase integration is completed I can then merge this with the master branch so
we can do this here.
And you can see that will when you tap on the branch button there then you get all of the other branches
so we want to take the master branch and we could.
One option is to check that out.
So if we check out the master branch it'll take us back to the master branch and we could start working
on that if we wanted to
but let's just go back to our Facebook Braj for the moment.
So if we want to merge this with the master branch we get back over to master
and then we can click on the other branch and then merge and then you can see that's brought the testing
Facebook integration branch into the master branch.
So we're now back working on master again and everything has been brought together.
So it's a great way to work on a specific feature on the side of the master branch and then only to
bring everything back in together again.
When you're convinced that the new feature work well and you do want to integrate it into your final
app so those are the basics of using get version control with Android studio.
There's a lot more that you can do with it.
So you do a bit of googling and work out how it might be most useful to you.
But those are the features that most developers use most commonly.
I hope that made sense and I hope that version control saves you from some disasters and helps you to
work more collaboratively in your have development career.